SQL is a language used for relational databases to query or get data out of a database.

It is the short for its original name, Structured Query Language.

There are different kinds of databases of different requirements. The data can be stored in various forms. When data is stored in tabular form, the data is organized in tables like in a spreadsheet, which is columns and rows, that's relational database.

In a relational database, you can form relationships between tables.

A set of software tools for the data in the database is called a database management system, or DBMS, for short. The terms database, database server, database system, data server and database management systems are often used interchangeably. For relational databases, it's called a relational database management system or RDBMS. RDBMS is a set of software tools that controls the data, such as access, organization, and storage.

Examples of relational database management systems are MySQL, Oracle database, DB2 warehouse, and DB2 on Cloud. For the majority of people using a database, there are five simple commands to create a table, Insert data to populate the table, Select data from the table, Update data in the table, Delete data from the table.

SELECT statement usage
SELECT is classified as a Database Query command used to retrieve information from a database table.

There are various forms in which a SELECT statement is used.

The general syntax of a SELECT statement retrieves the data under the listed columns from Table_1. The code is:
SELECT COLUMN1, COLUMN2, ... FROM TABLE_1 ;

To retrieve all columns from a table, use " * " instead of specifying individual column names. The code below retrieves the entire table.
SELECT * FROM TABLE_1 ;

Use the WHERE clause to filter the required data based on a predicate. The code below filters the response to only the entries that match the predicate.
SELECT <COLUMNS> FROM TABLE_1 WHERE <predicate> ;

COUNT is a built-in database function that retrieves the number of rows that match the query criteria. For example, get the total number of rows in a given table.
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM tablename

DISTINCT is used to remove duplicate values from a result set. Example, to retrieve unique values in a column.
SELECT DISTINCT columnname FROM tablename.

LIMIT is used for restricting the number of rows retrieved from the database. Example, retrieve just the first 10 rows in a table.
SELECT * FROM tablename LIMIT 10

we want to retrieve 15 rows from the table starting from row 11.
SELECT * FROM FilmLocations LIMIT 15 OFFSET 10;

The INSERT statement is used to add new rows to a table. The INSERT statement is one of the data manipulation language statements. Data manipulation language statements or DML statements are used to read and modify data.
INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2, ... )
VALUES (value1, value2, ... );

The UPDATE statement is one of the data manipulation language or DML statements. DML statements are used to read and modify data. 
UPDATE [TableName] SET [ColumnName] = [Value] ]> WHERE [Condition]
Note that if you do not specify the WHERE clause, all the rows in the table will be updated.

The DELETE statement is one of the data manipulation language statements used to read and modify data.
DELETE FROM [TABLEName] WHERE [Condition]


